Down. Biographics mobsters, lots of B roll with wise guys,
Cuban cigars and their attractive girlfriends and slicked back hair.
Unfortunately, not all of us are gifted,
such wonderful genetics at top our heads. Fortunately,
if you're someone who's worried about losing his hair,
there is today's sponsor keeps.
Did you know that two out of every three guys will experience some form of male
pass and boldness by the time the five? Well, I definitely know it for me.
It was 25. I wish keeps have been arounds when I was younger,
because advancements in science have meant that there are now treatments that
can combat the symptoms of hair loss and help you keep your hair.
It's too late for me. My hair's not coming back,
but you don't have to be like me. You can stop your hair loss early.
Thanks to keeps keeps offers generic versions of the only two FDA of prove
drugs for treating hair loss. So you may have tried them before,
but never at a price this low that's right. If you're thinking, oh,
Simon medicine for hair loss, it's gonna be expensive. Oh no.
Keep starts at just $10 a month. How does it work? Well for one thing,
there's no need to visit a doctor's office.
Just schedule a quick online consult and a bit later, boom,
discreet package drives and side all the products you need to keep your hair and
use them in the privacy of your own home.
So if you are noticing that you're losing your hair, that's one problem.
That's not gonna fix itself. Do something about it for a limited time,
go to keep stock com slash biographics or click the link in the description or
receive 50% off your first order.
He would've been chairman of the board of general motors.
If they'd gone into legitimate businesses,
how an FBI agent once described Lansky with a note of reluctant
respect in his voice,
Lansky was one of the most powerful people in the math here,
even though technically he was only an associate because he was Jewish,
not Italian. The most mob bosses were perfect.
Be happy to gloss over that minor detail because working with landscape was an
almost sure far away of making money and all of them above any loyalties,
traditions and beliefs liked making money.
Lansky had the mid touch when it came to illegal business nicknames,
the mobs account,
and he allegedly once boasted that it took the mob and made it bigger than us
steel. And at the height of its power, it might have been right.
Lansky was born Maya Suski on July the fourth, 1902 in the city of gro,
no Belarus, which back then was a part of the Russian em empire.
At the very least as the birthday that was written on his immigration records.
When his family traveled to America,
his parents didn't actually remember his exact date of birth.
So it was more of an estimate. Mars parents were Polish Jews.
They experienced a lot of violence and antisemitism.
And so their goal was to leave the Russian em empire and move to the new world.
His father went on ahead alone and in 1911,
the rest of the family followed and settle all down in Manhattan's lower east
side Lansky's life as a petty criminal started when he was a teenager,
but it went to the next level in 1918, when he met his future partner,
another notorious Jewish mobster named Bugsy Siegel. According to one story,
the two became friends.
One day when Lansky was coming back to school and he saw Siegel in trouble
during a fight over a craps game,
intervened on Siegel's behalf and moments later,
the police showed up prompting the two delinquent to run away together.
Just a quick heads up from this moment on Lansky's career was closely
intertwined for decades without a Bugsy Siegel.
We've already covered SIGAR here on biographics.
So maybe give that video or watch after words, if you haven't seen it.
So if there are areas we brush over,
that's probably because we already went in depth on them in the Siegel video.
Plus there is a lot more ground to cover here.
Since landscape went on for another 35 years after Siegel's death. Anyway,
the two criminals soon forms the bugs and ma mob,
which steadily became one of the most powerful Jewish mobs in Manhattan
throughout the 1920, be handled racketeering extortion, burglaries,
money lending, car theft, gambling, and once prohibition kicked in boot lagging,
eventually they turned to killing as well and actually became quite notorious
for their blood. First,
as other gangs began making use of their murder for horror services.
Bugsy Siegel was usually the one who was at the head of the hit squad while
landscape preferred the role in the shadows as acting hours,
the brains of the outfit,
The profile of the bugs and Mar mob grew,
but it was a landscape's association with a different man that enabled him to
rise through the ranks.
Ultimately becoming one of the most powerful mobsters in America.
That man was Charles lucky Lucha. Again,
we are relying on a bit of mob law here,
but it has said that the two met when they were teenagers, when Lucha,
who was five years older, tried to extort money from landscape the latter,
even though he was younger and smaller,
did not back down and was getting ready for a fight. However,
Lucha admire the Jewish boy for his toughness and his instinct tolls him that it
would be better to make a friends than a faux outta Lansky.
And boy was he right? Working together,
Lucha and landscape enacted a revolution within the American mob.
One that saw numerous Italian Jewish factions from all over the country ban
together in order to maximize their profits and minimize the inhouse fighting,
which was bad for business.
This was accomplished by establishing the national crime syndicate,
where the decisions were made by the commission,
a group that represented the interests of all of the members instead of a single
man commonly referred to as the boss, all bosses,
the birth of the commission was an important landmark in the history of the
mafia. One that changed forever how organized crime operated in America.
It was mainly the brain chart of lucky Lucha who went on to become the
commission's first chairman.
That my ski also helped immensely by organizing the meeting where all the mobs
gathered together for the first time to discuss the terms of venue arrangement.
The summit occurred between the 13th and the 16th of May,
1929 and was known as the Atlantic city conference. Once it had concluded,
it was time to get rid of the old timers, the so-called mustache, Pete,
who came from the old country and had intention of relinquishing power to a
committee at the time, there wasn't just one boss of all bosses,
but there were actually two men fighting over supremacy.
And what was known as the Castella Mai war, one of them was Joe,
the boss Masser R,
and the other was Salvador Marza Licha was actually a Lieutenant for mare at the
time, but he betrayed him and arranged his assassination for Mozo.
In order to end the war in April, 1931, then just a few months later,
he also planned the murder of Marzano officially ushering in the era of that
commission. As far as Maya Lansky was concerned,
his mob provided some of the hit men used in both assassinations because the
commission was strictly an Italian thing.
Landscape could not have an official seat at the table,
but unofficially he became Lu's right hands man.
And the two of them worked together on most business dealings after prohibition
ended the bugs and ma mob disbanded as both I and Siegel took on bigger roles,
independent of each other within the syndicate
Prohibition had been a giant boom for my L ski.
And his crew was bootlegging was his main moneymaker.
But once he came to an end in 1933,
he needed a new cash cow and he found it in gambling. Don't get us wrong.
The mob had already been involved with gambling for decades, but until then,
nobody really had landscape's ambition to set up large operations in multiple
cities. He started with Florida in the mid 1930s, then expanded to new Orleans.
Pretty much every business landscape got involved with turned to profit,
and he had a reputation that his upscale establishments known as carpet joints
were all legit.
So gamblers did not have to worry about the tables being rigged when they played
at his casinos.
The one investments that proved problematic came almost a decade later,
and it was the Flamingo hotel in Las Vegas.
It was the pet project of Lansky's former partner, Bugsy Siegel.
While landscape was busy,
setting up a gambling empire Siegel took over operations in Los Angeles and
began ping around with Hollywood's rich and famous from there.
Siegel got the inspired idea to build a new hotel and casino on a stretch of
mainly undeveloped land in Nevada, which would later become the Vegas strip.
But contrary to miss, it was not the first casino on the strip.
So boxy Siegel did not invent Las Vegas to spite the popular saying.
The one thing that SIOR did do was convince many of his mobs to buddies,
to invest in the Flamingo, including my landscape. Unfortunately for him,
Siegel was good at being criminal, not a builder.
The original budget for the construction was around or 1.5 billion,
but it ended up costing over 6 million, mainly due to delays contractors,
taking advantage of seagulls in experience,
and the possibility that the mob himself was skimming off the top.
This landed seagull in hot water with the mob.
And it was only a Mylan skis insistence that he was momentarily given a repre.
Well,
then the Flamingo actually opens and the inauguration went terribly because the
hotel was not finished yet, just the casino.
So people went in gambled one and then took their winnings and went someplace
else. Again.
Siegel's head was on the chopping block and landscape to intervene to save the
neck of his former partner. Of course Lansky's reach was long,
but it wasn't endless. He couldn't save Siegel forever.
Especially as fears were growing inside the mob.
Not only that Siegel had been stealing from them,
but that he was planning on king, a run for it to Europe, with his girlfriend,
Virginia Hill on the 20th of June, 1947, Bugsy was gunned down in Hills,
California home. And although the identity of the shooter remains a mystery,
that was almost certainly a mob here that had been approved by Mar lke,
allegedly less than half an hour after Eagle's death.
Some of his associates entered the Flamingo and took over the operation.
The hotel and casino scene became profitable and landscape maintained his
interest in it for decades.
They often say that the enemy of my enemy is my friends and that concept was
truly tested during world Wari.
The mob might have been no violence organization responsible for countless
illegal activities, but it still was nowhere near as bad as the Nazis.
Once the United States entered the war against the access powers,
they sought out support from the mafia in a unique Alliance,
dubbed operation underworld,
basically it all started when America captured a former French ocean liner
dubbed the SS Normandy, renamed it, USS laugh outs,
converted it into a troop ship. However,
it never saw action as a capsized and San while sitting in new York's PI 88 in
the winter of 1942, the circumstances were suspicious.
And the us government feared that the ship had been sabotaged by Nazi spies and
sympathizers.
Therefore the government reached out to an organization that they knew could
control the labor unions and maintain order on the, of France,
the math app in March,
they reached out to a Geneve Lieutenant named Joseph Lanza and he sent word up
the train of command to Lucha.
By that point Liano had been imprisons and he was glad to help an exchange for
an early release. The authorities agreed to the terms,
although Lu Chao's release also came with a deportation to Italy.
Nowadays it is a matter of historical debate of operation under world was of any
actual help to the war effort or not.
But there was at least one mob who was more proactive and took up arms again to
the Nazis, even before America joined the war.
And that was Lansky since he was Jewish.
It's not surprising that Lansky hated the Nazis and ever since the 1930s, he,
as men went around, busting up rallies by pro Nazi organizations,
such as the silver shirts, the German American bun,
according to some historians,
Lansky even did this with the tacit approval of certain New York officials who
hated the Nazis, but couldn't do anything to stop them legally.
So instead they turned to the mob with the understanding that Blansky and his
man were free to break arms and legs and cracks and skulls,
but couldn't kill anybody.
Blan scheme self described how he and his gang busted up on brown shirt rally in
Manhattan. The stage was decorated with a swastika and a picture of Hitler.
The speakers started ranting. There were only 15 of us, but we went into action.
We threw some of them outta the windows. Most of the Nazis panicked and ran out.
We chased them and beat them up.
We wanted to show them that Jews would not always sit back and accept insults
As successful as landscape's businesses in the United States were,
they didn't quite live up to his vision of a gambling paradise where he and his
partners could exercise control over politicians and operate free from the
scrutiny of the us government to fulfill his ambition.
Lansky intended to go to Cuba.
It's unclear if landscape always considered the Caribbean country,
an ideal target,
or if the opportunity simply presented itself and he immediately recognized the
potential, but his dealings in Cuba started in the late 1930s earlier in 1933,
there had been an uprising in Cuba known as the sergeants revolt president har
Geraldo Mao was overthrown and he was succeeded by multiple heads of state with
very short terms. Most of them didn't actually have any real authorities.
Most of the power was in the hands of a Colonel named Phil Henio,
Batista who had control of Cuba armed forces. Finally in 1940,
he won the presidential election and became the new preside of Cuba in decades.
Past the country's capital Havana had been a hotspot for the rich and famous
coming over from the United States to indulge in gambling and nightlife.
But Easter wanted to bring that back.
So he enlisted the help of several people to get Cuba's entertainment industries
back on their feet.
And this included by landscape who was brought into help revitalize the casinos
because of his reputation of running profitable and respectable upscale carpet
joints back in America landscape of course could spot a good thing.
When he saw once a,
he began cultivating a working relationship with the Cuban leader that would
last for decades. At the end of the day,
they both shared a vision for what cuber could become.
It looks like Ky and Batista were going to make a lot of money together,
but something unexpected happened in 1944, Batista lost power.
It was time for a new election. The Colonel did not run again,
but he hands picked his successor fully expecting him to win. Ands,
become the new president,
basically acting as a puppet who still carried out Batist disorders,
but he actually lost the election.
And the new Cuban president Ramon grow didn't share Batiste's interest in
gambling and Neith did a success up.
That meant that for eight years Lansky's plans in Cuba were put on hold.
They resumed in 1952 when Batista stage another co and seized power one and
small in between Batista's two times as leader of Cuba, Lansky had no choice,
but to focus his attention elsewhere.
But one notable thing did occur in the country. During that time,
the Havana conference, it was held during the week of December the 22nd,
1946 at the hotel NA now to Cuba like the summit from Atlantic city held in
1929.
This was a major gathering of all the top mobsters to discuss some pressing
matters. It was organized by Lansky and Lucha,
and it was held in Cuba so that Lucha could attend after having been deported to
Italy.
Some of the important topics discussed include the mafia's role in the drug
trade. What they intended to do about Bugsy Siegel,
who at the time was having problems with the Flamingo hotel and tensions that
were brewing in the Lucha family is veto gen.
He was making a play to become the new Don since lucky he couldn't travel to the
us anymore.
Their role in Cuba was also debated while many other mobs shared S's vision for
this. They needed Batista back in power,
or at least somebody else willing to open the country up to them.
A few went by and in 1952, Phil Henio Batista staged military co on paper.
He was a provisional president, but in reality, he was the new dictator of Cuba.
And he was ready to turn Havana into a hedonistic playgrounds for rich tourists
while my Lansky and laughter tripping over themselves to provide Cuba with all
the gambling, drugs and prostitutes that could have a need.
One Cuban historian described honor during the 1950s as being what Las Vegas
would eventually become for just $50.
Tourists could fly in from Florida and the money would be enough to cover their
flights, their hotel rooms, and leave enough spending cash.
So they could entertain themselves at brothels, buffets, beaches, casinos clubs,
and cabarets,
which were all a short walking distance from each other on the mob side of
things.
Operations were mainly hands OND by Lansky and man named Santo traffic can Jr.
Head of the traffic can crime family based out of Tampa.
The latter controls most criminal activities in Florida.
So naturally most shipments that went to and from Cuba pass his territory.
Lansky started by a Pinn,
a few nightclubs and casinos such as the Mon mater club and the Tropicana.
He then persuaded Batista to renovate of honors already iconic hotel NA now,
and turn one of the wings into a casino.
The money was pouring in the Cub government was incredibly friendly towards
foreign investments and showed little concern for the source of this new
revenue. As long as they invested enough money,
the mob had no trouble acquiring all the licenses they needed and even receive
tax breaks and public matching funds for construction.
The fifties were very profitable for Lansky and his associates,
but he wanted even more like his one time partner, Bugsy Siegel,
Lansky wanted to leave his mark by building his own hotel and casino.
The Havana Riviera construction began in December,
1956 and it finished just a year later, Lansky it, it sped no expense.
The Riviera was the largest and most luxurious casino hotel in Cuba,
situated on prime beachfront property that provided every room with a view of
the Gulf of Mexico. Every week,
there was a new headlining act from Hollywood while may Lansky used the
presidential suite on the top floor as his new headquarters Lansky had achieved
his goal, but it didn't last long.
While Havana had been trying formed into a garden of earthly delights for
American tourists, the rest of Cuba wasn't doing so well.
It suffered due to poverty and corruption. And this led to talks of rebellion,
which were inflamed by a young fire brand named Fidel Castro who had
begun assembling an army of gorillas. At first, the mob was not too concerned,
believing that it would be business as usual, regardless of who was in charge,
but they were wrong. The rebels won on December the 31st, 90,
58 and the following day,
Phil Henio Batista and dozens of his family members and close associates fled
Cuba forever.
But our Castro was now in charge and he brought communism to Cuba within a year.
All industries and businesses had been nationalized. And just like that,
the mob lost all of its assets and revenue sources in Cuba.
Losing cuber was a big blow to the mafia, but especially tomorrow,
lke had invested so much money into the Riviera throughout the 1960s.
Mobsters kept a look out for other locations in the Caribbean and The Bahamas,
which could potentially become the new Havana. At the same time.
It is likely that landscapes associates are holding out hope that Castros really
regime would fall and be replaced with somebody who was friendlier towards
foreign ventures. And it would be back to business like before,
ultimately this did not happen.
And the mob eventually gave up looking in other places and instead chose to
focus its attention on Las Vegas. At that point,
the gambling industry had begun to gain a foothold in the city and Vegas was
showing the first glimpses of why it would soon become since city Myland skis
later years were much more quiet,
although he still maintained an important role in organized crime.
He also invested in legitimate businesses.
His wealth has always been a tricky subject to estimate and has caused a lot of
debate among historians while some believed he was worth hundreds of millions of
dollars at the height of his power. Others think this is sheer fantasy.
He left almost no money behind when he died.
And it's possible that he lost most of his wealth in Cuba.
For most of his criminal career landscape managed to avoid getting into trouble
with the law. But in 1970,
it seemed like he would finally end up behind bars on tax of Eva charges.
That same year. He tried to move to Israel using the country's law of return,
allowed Jews from other places to relocate that however,
the Israeli government could turn down requests from people with criminal pasts
and it did so in landscape's case,
he fought the decision in Israeli court for over two years,
but he eventually lost and was returned to America in 1972.
Ultimately the charges against landscape were dropped in 1974 with a position
ruling that he was too ill to stand trial.
Bylan spent the last years of his life in his home in Miami beach, Florida.
It is unclear how involved he was in the mob at this point,
but it's certain that it was a completely different playing field.
All the people that he came up with either dead or in prison landscape himself
died of lung cancer on January the 15th, 1983, aged 80.
He enjoyed a rare luxury for those in his line of business by getting to die of
old age and as a free man. So I really hope you found this video. Interesting.
If you did, please do hit that thumbs up button below.
Don't forget to subscribe and as always, thank you for watching.